As the Use of AI In Healthcare Grows, Cardio Diagnostic Is Using It In Quest to Help Prevent Cardiovascular Disease

In the United States, one person dies from cardiovascular disease every 33 seconds, and nearly one in every four deaths is attributed to heart disease. It is the leading cause of death for men, women and people of most racial and ethnic groups across the board. In 2021, cardiovascular disease cost the U.S. approximately $219 billion and those numbers are only expected to go up if nothing changes.
Fortunately, many of the deaths associated with heart disease are preventable if health professionals are able to leverage modern technology to educate and treat effectively. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study and the Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases Collaboration have provided valuable perspectives on the urgency of developing comprehensive strategies to address these risks and enhance public health.
According to Gregory A. Roth, MD, MPH, the senior author of the paper, associate professor in the Division of Cardiology, and director of the Program in Cardiovascular Health Metrics at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, “Cardiovascular diseases continue to pose a persistent challenge, resulting in a significant number of premature and preventable deaths.”
Combining advanced clinical diagnostic solutions with digital health, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and value-based care initiatives can accelerate how organizations tackle cardiovascular disease.
In 2023, the market for AI in healthcare was forecasted to reach $20.65 billion, and it is predicted to reach $187.95 billion by 2030. This is not surprising to most because the implementation of AI in healthcare has brought about a transformative shift in the industry, enabling a personalized approach to patient care. AI algorithms can effectively handle and analyze extensive medical data, including epigenetic, genetic information and DNA-based biomarkers.
Healthcare providers now have the capability to make precise and personalized treatment choices, taking into account an individual’s specific biology, which ultimately enhances patient outcomes. By utilizing AI-powered systems, patterns can be identified, potential health issues can be predicted, and real-time monitoring can be conducted, facilitating early intervention and preventive measures.
Cardio Diagnostics Holdings, Inc. CDIO, an artificial intelligence-powered precision cardiovascular medicine company, is one company leading the charge in developing solutions to combat cardiovascular disease. Both the mission and capabilities of Cardio Diagnostics align with the healthcare sector’s demands for leveraging cutting-edge molecular and AI technologies to drive preventive care, earlier disease detection, and chronic disease management. By employing AI and machine learning, the company can help empower healthcare providers to proactively identify high-risk populations and intervene early, leading to enhanced health outcomes and cost reductions across a broad spectrum of organizations.
COVID-19 dramatically changed the landscape of telehealth, and four years after the pandemic began, it looks like telehealth is here to stay. In 2023, MGMA Stat did a poll with medical group leaders to get an understanding of the current landscape of telehealth – 45% believed telehealth demand would remain mostly the same, while 27% of respondents said they expected an increase. Telemedicine capabilities have been especially helpful in rural areas that had been experiencing physician shortages before the pandemic.
In rural communities, Cardio Diagnostics makes specialty cardiovascular care accessible. The divide between urban and rural healthcare options can be bridged by deploying innovative solutions. When provider organizations and employers in rural settings adopt Cardio's solutions, which couple telehealth to advanced AI-powered DNA tests, they can drive access to highly accurate diagnostics without extensive travel or the need for specialized infrastructure.
The company’s solutions enhance accessibility and convenience while optimizing specialty care for patients in underserved communities where travel distances and limited access to healthcare facilities present roadblocks to timely medical attention. Cardio Diagnostics empowers healthcare organizations by enabling primary care physicians to identify cardiovascular risk and status upstream before specialty cardiology becomes necessary, ultimately delivering value-based care.
As cardiovascular disease remains a major concern for doctors and families, modern technology must evolve how we approach prevention and treatment. Companies like Cardio Diagnostics are key to bringing AI into the fold while using digital health technologies such as telemedicine to expand healthcare possibilities and provide value-based care.
Featured photo by National Cancer Institute on Unsplash.
This post contains sponsored content. This content is for informational purposes only and is not intended to be investing advice.