Hedges Are Profitable, Semiconductors Stabilizing After 17% Drop

To gain an edge, this is what you need to know today.
The Arora Report gave several signals to put hedges on to protect large profits on long-term positions. Hedges are now profitable. It is time to book partial profits on some hedges.
Please click here for an enlarged chart of semiconductor ETF SMH.
Note the following:
In the early trade, money flows are positive in Amazon.com, Inc. AMZN, Alphabet (GOOG), Meta (META), NVIDIA Corp NVDA, Microsoft (MSFT), and Tesla (TSLA).
In the early trade, money flows are neutral in Apple Inc AAPL.
In the early trade, money flows are mixed in SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust SPY and Invesco QQQ Trust Series 1 QQQ.
The momo crowd is buying stocks in the early trade. Smart money is inactive in the early trade.
The momo crowd is selling gold in the early trade. Smart money is inactive in the early trade.
For longer-term, please see gold and silver ratings.
The most popular ETF for gold is SPDR Gold Trust GLD. The most popular ETF for silver is iShares Silver Trust SLV.
The momo crowd is selling oil in the early trade.  Smart money is inactive in the early trade.
For longer-term, please see oil ratings.
The most popular ETF for oil is United States Oil ETF USO.
Bitcoin BTC/USD is range bound. Bitcoin bulls are disappointed that bitcoin is not running up immediately after the halving.
It is important for investors to look ahead and not in the rearview mirror.
Consider continuing to hold good, very long term, existing positions. Based on individual risk preference, consider a protection band consisting of cash or Treasury bills or short-term tactical trades as well as short to medium term hedges and short term hedges. This is a good way to protect yourself and participate in the upside at the same time.
You can determine your protection bands by adding cash to hedges. The high band of the protection is appropriate for those who are older or conservative. The low band of the protection is appropriate for those who are younger or aggressive. If you do not hedge, the total cash level should be more than stated above but significantly less than cash plus hedges.
It is worth reminding that you cannot take advantage of new upcoming opportunities if you are not holding enough cash. When adjusting hedge levels, consider adjusting partial stop quantities for stock positions (non ETF); consider using wider stops on remaining quantities and also allowing more room for high beta stocks. High beta stocks are the ones that move more than the market.
Probability based risk reward adjusted for inflation does not favor long duration strategic bond allocation at this time.
Those who want to stick to traditional 60% allocation to stocks and 40% to bonds may consider focusing on only high quality bonds and bonds of seven year duration or less. Those willing to bring sophistication to their investing may consider using bond ETFs as tactical positions and not strategic positions at this time.
The Arora Report is known for its accurate calls. The Arora Report correctly called the big artificial intelligence rally before anyone else, the new bull market of 2023, the bear market of 2022, new stock market highs right after the virus low in 2020, the virus drop in 2020, the DJIA rally to 30,000 when it was trading at 16,000, the start of a mega bull market in 2009, and the financial crash of 2008. Please click here to sign up for a free forever Generate Wealth Newsletter.